Adds live migration procedures for sdn to ovnk (#76672)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/how-the-live-migration-process-works.adoc

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * networking/ovn_kubernetes_network_provider/migrate-from-openshift-sdn.adoc

ifeval::["{context}" == "migrate-to-openshift-sdn"]
:sdn: OpenShift SDN
:previous-sdn: OVN-Kubernetes
:type: OpenShiftSDN
endif::[]
ifeval::["{context}" == "migrate-from-openshift-sdn"]
:sdn: OVN-Kubernetes
:previous-sdn: OpenShift SDN
:type: OVNKubernetes
endif::[]

[id="how-the-live-migration-process-works_{context}"]
= How the live migration process works

The following table summarizes the live migration process by segmenting between the user-initiated steps in the process and the actions that the migration script performs in response.

> .Migrating to OVNKubernetes from OpenShiftSDN (live)

Reviewer: Should use` Live migration` throughout this document?

[cols="1,1a",options="header"]
|===
|User-initiated steps|Migration activity

> ifdef::openshift-rosa,openshift-dedicated[]

Reviewer 2: I'm not seeing this assembly in the ROSA preview. Should it be there?

https://76672--ocpdocs-pr.netlify.app/openshift-rosa/latest/networking/ovn_kubernetes_network_provider/configuring-egress-ips-ovn

Author: @mburke5678 not yet. It will be in there in the future.

| Add the `unsupported-red-hat-internal-testing` annotation to the cluster-level network configuration. 
| The Cluster Network Operator (CNO) acknowledges the unsupported testing environment.
endif::[]

| Patch the cluster-level networking configuration by changing the `networkType` from `OpenShiftSDN` to `OVNKubernetes`.
| 
Cluster Network Operator (CNO)::
+
--
* Sets migration-related fields in the `network.operator` custom resource (CR) and waits for routable MTUs to be applied to all nodes.

> * Patches the `network.operator` CR to enable migration mode to Live for OVN-Kubernetes and deploys the OpenShift SDN network plugin in migration mode.

Reviewer 2: I don't like the _enable to Live_ structure. 
s/enable migration mode/set the migration mode/enables Live migration mode. ?? 

s/Live/'Live`?

> * Deploys OVN-Kubernetes with hybrid overlay enabled, ensuring no racing conditions occur.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Deploys OVN-Kubernetes with the hybrid overlay enabled, ensuring that no racing conditions occur.
```

> * Waits for OVN-Kubernetes deployment and updates conditions in the status of the `network.config` CR.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Waits for the OVN-Kubernetes deployment and updates the conditions in the status of the `network.config` CR.
```

> * Triggers the Machine Config Operator (MCO) to apply new MachineConfig to each pool, which includes node cordoning, draining, and rebooting.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Triggers the Machine Config Operator (MCO) to apply the new machine config to each machine config pool, which includes node cordoning, draining, and rebooting.
```

> * OVN-Kubernetes adds nodes to appropriate zones and recreates pods using OVN-Kubernetes as the default CNI plugin.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* OVN-Kubernetes adds nodes to the appropriate zones and recreates pods using OVN-Kubernetes as the default CNI plugin.
```

* Removes migration-related fields from the network.operator CR and performs cleanup actions, such as deleting OpenShift SDN resources and redeploying OVN-Kubernetes in normal mode with necessary configurations.

> * Waits for OVN-Kubernetes redeployment and updates status conditions in the `network.config` CR to indicate migration completion. If your migration is blocked, see "Checking live migration metrics" for troubleshooting the issue.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Waits for OVN-Kubernetes redeployment and updates the status conditions in the `network.config` CR to indicate migration completion. If your migration is blocked, see "Checking live migration metrics" for information on troubleshooting the issue.
```

--
|===

////
ifeval::["{context}" == "migrate-from-openshift-sdn"]
If a rollback to OpenShift SDN is required, the following table describes the process.

[IMPORTANT]
====
You must wait until the migration process from OpenShift SDN to OVN-Kubernetes network plugin is successful before initiating a rollback.
====

.Performing a rollback to OpenShift SDN
[cols="1,1a",options="header"]
|===

|User-initiated steps|Migration activity

> |Suspend the MCO to ensure that it does not interrupt the migration.

Reviewer 3: No

> |Suspend the MCO to ensure that it does not interrupt the migration.

Author: This will be removed in https://github.com/openshift/openshift-docs/pull/77067

|The MCO stops.

|
Set the `migration` field of the `Network.operator.openshift.io` custom resource (CR) named `cluster` to `OpenShiftSDN`. Make sure the `migration` field is `null` before setting it to a value.
|
CNO:: Updates the status of the `Network.config.openshift.io` CR named `cluster` accordingly.

|Update the `networkType` field.
|
CNO:: Performs the following actions:
+
--

> * Destroys the OVN-Kubernetes control plane pods.

Reviewer 2: _Destroys_ seems a bit harsh! 

```suggestion
* Deletes/Removes the OVN-Kubernetes control plane pods.
```

Author: Content is marked out and will be removed in a separate PR.

* Deploys the OpenShift SDN control plane pods.

> * Updates the Multus objects to reflect the new network plugin.

Reviewer 3: I suppose this was copied from offline migration. We don't need this for live migration.

--

|
Reboot each node in the cluster.
|
Cluster:: As nodes reboot, the cluster assigns IP addresses to pods on the OpenShift-SDN network.

|
Enable the MCO after all nodes in the cluster reboot.
|

> MCO:: Rolls out an update to the systemd configuration necessary for OpenShift SDN; the MCO updates a single machine per pool at a time by default, so the total time the migration takes increases with the size of the cluster.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
MCO:: Rolls out the update to the systemd configuration necessary for OpenShift SDN; the MCO updates a single machine for each machine config pool at a time by default, so the total time that the migration takes increases with the size of the cluster.
```

|===
endif::[]

////

> 

Reviewer 2: You didn't uses these variables (that I noticed). Do they need to be there?

Author: yeah. this content is being removed in a different PR.
